About The Role

Base Location: Cardiff, Reading or Perth – this is a hybrid role working a minimum of two days a week from the office at the advertised location.

Salary: £39,415 - £45,136 + a range of other benefits to support your family, finances and wellbeing.

Working Pattern: Permanent | Full Time | Flexible First options available

What is the Role?

Role

You will be part of our Deployment Operations Team workstream, reporting into the Data and Eligibility Lead. Your role will support the smart meter delivery process by handling, analysing, and managing customer and smart meter related data. This role involves sourcing eligible customers for smart meter installations, generating complex data outputs, and coaching colleagues to ensure timely and accurate data work completion. As part of your role you will:

 Support in the modification and maintenance of data queries and databases, to be used for Ofgem submissions and stakeholder requests concerning Smart deployments and campaigns.
 Generate complex data outputs based on criteria set by internal stakeholders.
 Supporting a continuous customer data clean-up strategy.
 Supporting the achievement of targets set out in SSE BE’s Smart Ofgem submission through analysis of data processes.
 Oversee the delivery of key stakeholder requests by members of the team.

What do I need?

To be considered for this role, we would love you to have:

 Experience in handling customer and meter-related data.
 Background in data analysis using MS Excel, including modelling experience and visualisation skills.
 Intermediate to advanced level of Power BI knowledge and Python/SQL coding applications.
 Proactive logical thinker with strong time management skills and ability to work independently.
 Strong stakeholder management and interpersonal skills.

About Our Business

The race to net zero is intensifying for businesses of all sizes. Sustainable decisions made today can meet customers' changing needs for tomorrow and bring long-term success for businesses. Part of SSE plc, the UK and Ireland's largest renewable electricity generator, SSE Energy Solutions is different as all its renewable electricity is sourced from SSE's own UK wind and hydro assets.

In addition to providing gas and electricity to businesses across the UK, SSE Energy Solutions invests in, builds and connects localised flexible infrastructure to drive the long-term performance of energy assets. SSE Energy Solutions works with its customers to deliver financially robust plans to bring flexibility and diversity to their energy infrastructure - the low-carbon solutions they need to succeed in the race to net zero.

What’s in it for you?

An excellent package with 34 days holiday entitlement (including public holidays), enhanced maternity/paternity leave, discounted healthcare, salary sacrifice car leasing and much more, view our full benefits package on our careers site.

As an equal opportunity employer we encourage diversity and are committed to creating an inclusive environment for all employees. We actively encourage applicants from all protected characteristics and commit to providing any reasonable adjustments required during the application, assessment and upon joining SSE. Search for ‘Inclusion & Diversity at SSE’ to find out more.

Next Steps

All applications should be submitted online, and I'll be back in touch after the vacancy closing date to let you know the outcome.

If you would like to discuss any working differently requirements or adjustments you may require throughout the recruitment and selection process, please contact Lynsey on lynsey.macdonald@sse.com or on 01738 340426.

Before commencing employment with SSE, you'll be required to fully complete our pre-employment screening process consisting of a basic criminal records and credit check.