Job title: Data Solutions Manager 



Location: Reading, with scope for hybrid working



Salary: £45,000 per annum



Job Type: Full Time (35 hours per week), Permanent



The Data Solutions Manager is responsible for developing and improving data and reporting solutions, and the improvement of data processes within the Teacher Professional Development (TPD) programmes.



Working with the Programme Director, senior managers, and workstream leads to create and continuously improve processes to accurately report data on our TPD programmes.



Knowledge



Essential:



Education to degree level (or equivalent) in a relevant field or subject



Practical knowledge and understanding of research methods and analysis Desirable



An understanding of the education sector



Experience

Essential:



Experience developing Data Solutions and dashboards using Data Visualization tools, particularly PowerBI



Experience of working with quantitative data, understanding analysis and providing reports to senior stakeholders



Wide experience with large and varied data sets, with a focus on improving data quality and processes



Demonstrable experience in data manipulation, cleansing and analysis



A full list of job objectives and requirements can be found in the Job description on our website.





Deadline for applications: 28 June 2024. Please note, we reserve the right to close our vacancies early if sufficient applications are received).



Interview details: An Interview day will take place on 1 July 2024. Second interviews, if required, will be held at a later date.



How to apply: To be considered for this vacancy, applicants are required to complete and submit a fully completed application form through our website.



Salary & Benefits



Salary: 



Benefits include:



30 days holiday plus bank holidays (pro rota)

Matched Pension Scheme

Life Assurance

Discounted gym memberships

Health care cash plan

Retail discounts

Cycle to work scheme.

Wellbeing App

Education Development Trust is committed to safeguarding and promoting the welfare of children and adults whom we work with and come into contact with around the world. All applicants are subject to thorough screening and successful candidates are subject to the relevant level of criminal record checks with national police authorities or the UK’s Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS). This will be at minimum a basic DBS check.



At Education Development Trust, we strive to create a workplace where everyone feels valued, can be themselves and knows they can reach their full potential. We embrace and celebrate our differences through various initiatives and support colleagues through a number of staff networks. We’re committed to building a strong, diverse workforce and making Education Development Trust an inclusive place to work. If you have specific requirements or adjustments, please let us know if there is anything we can do to support your application. We are proud to be a member of the Disability Confident employer scheme.