SSE has big ambitions to be a leading energy company in a low carbon world. Following our commitment to invest £20.5 billion in low carbon projects to 2027, we have significant growth plans and are well on our way to achieving our ambition to build a world that's more sustainable and inclusive for you, your family, the community you live in and for generations to come.

Join us on our journey to net zero and help us power change.

About The Role

Base Location: Flexible, however our preference is that you will be based in one of our key UK or Ireland sites, which includes but is not limited to:- Glasgow, Perth, Aberdeen, Inverness, Reading, Havant, London, Dublin or Belfast.

Salary: £45,400 - £68,200 + performance related bonus and a range of benefits to support your finances, wellbeing and family.

Working Pattern: Permanent | Full Time | Flexible First options available

Working in a dynamic team to drive analysis and insights to support the development of SSE Renewables' strategy, the Senior Insights Analyst will support the Insights Manager in leading stakeholder engagement as well as the co-ordination and management of market analysis and reports created for the wider SSE Renewables business.

As a key stakeholder manager, the Senior Insights Analyst will regularly review the needs of internal stakeholders to ensure that the Insights team are developing the analysis and reports critical to allow informative and key decisions to be made.

Key Responsibilities For This Role Will Include

Working with senior leaders to develop a clear analysis and report plan as required. 
Supporting the Insights team with the market analysis/report requests. 
Building strong relationships with the wider SSE Renewables and Group Business Units to ensure alignment across key business milestones and projects. 
Deputising for the Insights Manager, standing in for meetings with senior stakeholders (e.g. Renewables Executive Committee).

What do I need?

To be considered for this role, we would love you to have:

Substantial experience in international market analysis and educated to degree level or significant equivalent experience (preferably in engineering, maths, business administration or economics). 
Critical thinking, analytical skills and intellectual curiosity to robustly filter market data and information and provide independent assessment of markets. 
Demonstrable knowledge of the energy markets ideally in renewables and/or wider clean energy sector to ensure you can advise around technology, competitors, opportunities and challenges facing the market. 
Experience in developing strong and effective stakeholder relationships and management. 
Excellent communicator using objective analysis to produce clear and concise recommendations. 

About Our Business

SSE Renewables (SSER) business continues to be at the forefront of our growth plans, and our ambition to build a world that's more sustainable and inclusive for you, your family, the community you live in and for generations to come. We are proud to be playing a critical role in the net zero transition, as we aim to more than treble the net capacity in operation to 13GW and grow renewable energy output five-fold to over 50TWh over the next 10 years.

What's in it for you?

We offer an excellent package with 34 days annual leave entitlement. Enhanced maternity/paternity leave, discounted healthcare, salary sacrifice car leasing and much more, view our full benefits package on our careers site.

As an equal opportunity employer we encourage diversity and are committed to creating an inclusive environment for all employees. We encourage applicants from all protected characteristics and commit to providing any reasonable adjustments you need during the application, assessment and upon joining SSE. Search for 'Inclusion & Diversity at SSE' to find out more.

What happens now?

All applications should be made online, and I'll be back in touch after the vacancy closing date to let you know the outcome.

If you would like to discuss any working flexibly requirements or adjustments you may require throughout the recruitment and selection process, please contact laura.morrison@sse.com / 01738 341814.

EXTERNAL: Before commencing your role with SSE, you'll need to complete our pre-employment screening process. This will consist of a criminality and credit check.

INTERNAL: As a courtesy, please let your current line manager know you are applying.