Commercial Insights Analyst

 Market Leading B-Corp Scale-Up 





✅ Join an agile, high-performing Commercial Insights team delivering impactful projects to support a thriving sales unit

✅ Flex your problem-solving skills, analysing large volumes of sales data using SQL and Tableau to deliver regular reporting and ad hoc insights

✅ Own the streamlining of the reporting in their CRM (HubSpot)

✅ Real career development opportunities both laterally, and in seniority, in a high-performing, growth environment





💰 £40k - £50k

📍 Hybrid location in London





Join this market-leading B-Corp scale-up in the ‘purpose for good’ space, as they look to hire an essential role in this Commercial Insights Analyst.





About the Role

This is a high-impact role where you will play a crucial part in sales and business intelligence scoping, particularly in data quality management, CRM reporting, and supporting sales-related data queries. The role is highly visible across the business and is ideal for someone with a proactive, growth-oriented mindset who thrives in a dynamic, collaborative environment.





Key Responsibilities

Sales pipeline reporting – ensuring accurate and timely insights to drive decision-making.
Managing their internal CRM from a data perspective (HubSpot) – overseeing data quality and reporting (not administrative tasks).
Building custom dashboards and reports to provide actionable insights, around conversion rates, sales funnel, and sales team activities to improve sales financial performance.
Delivering data insights to support a data-driven sales process.




What We're Looking For

We are seeking adaptable and intellectually curious individuals with excellent interpersonal skills. You should have proficiency in:



Experience with CRM systems (HubSpot, Salesforce, Pipedrive, Zoho etc.)
Strong SQL skill – to extract and manipulate data effectively
Experience with data visualisation tools (Tableau, PowerBI, Qlik etc.)
Excel & Google Sheets – for advanced reporting and analysis




Career Growth & Development

This role offers strong career progression opportunities beyond sales data analytics. With a growth mindset, you could expand into broader data-driven decision-making across multiple functions.



The commercial team is diverse, allowing for varied career trajectories.



The line manager for this role has been promoted twice in three years, exemplifying the rapid career growth potential within this scaling business.





Skills & experience required:

Educated to degree level in a numerate subject; Machine Learning, Computer Science, Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Statistics, Engineering, Economics etc.
2-4 years experience in data analytics, employing a wide variety of techniques to solve problems and answer questions around sales performance (or comparative experience customer, financial or business data)
Strong skills in SQL for data extraction, manipulation and analysis, extracting insights and landing them with the business to drive improvements and optimise business performance and sales conversion
Proven experience and knowledge around CRM systems is essential - ideally hubSpot, others considered - in order to own the reporting, brining value and insight into how to streamline these processes for the business
Strong communication skills, ability to translate and bring to life complex technical solutions for non-technical stakeholders.