Senior Insights Analyst



Location: London - City of London / Hybrid 2 days a week

Salary: £55,000







A fantastic opportunity has come up to join an exciting and creative Digital Agency, as they continue to grow and build out all areas of their teams due to lots of success, with them also having even more ambitious plans for 2025 and beyond.



This award-winning digital marketing agency is on the lookout for a senior insights Analyst to help with the following:



Responsibilities:

● Be the lead analyst and point of contact across a selection of client accounts, understanding their requirements and translating to succinct performance updates and value reports.

● Using historical data to forecast and map client targets to quarterly, monthly and daily

target sets, with detailed breakdowns by channel.

● Hold company teams and clients accountable to the targets that are set, ensuring accurate data is available to monitor performance and enact change wherever necessary.

● Analyse performance marketing data and identify actionable insights that drive growth and continuous improvements.

● Build Google Looker Studio dashboards to surface key data points for clients using existing templates and building custom data sets/layouts as required.

● Support the Head of Data with creating and implementing new tracking strategies for

clients to ensure all digital touch points are tracked effectively and efficiently.

● Audit client Google Analytics accounts and implement updates and enhancements to create bespoke, best practise implementations.

● Innovate and enhance our client offering with the deployment of data warehousing through BigQuery ensuring appropriate restrictions are in place and excellent foundations for future usage.



Experience Required

● 4+ years of experience in a similar role

● Experience using BigQuery, SQL

● A passion for analysing data and a natural curiosity

● Exposure to paid media activity and understanding of the key metrics and ability to identify insights

● Understanding of SEO and common tools (Accuranker, Google Search Console)

● Ability to process large amounts of data and provide actionable insights





Applying:

If you like the sound of this opportunity and wish to be considered, you can apply by forwarding an up-to-date version of your CV, and someone will get back to you within 24 hours if we feel you are a potentially suitable and good match.