COMPANY OVERVIEW:

Energy is always evolving. At Hartree Partners, we use our decades of experience in

the physical and financial energy and commodities markets to explore the opportunities this evolution provides. We assist our customers in participating in new markets and navigating their complexities for maximum revenues at minimum risk.



We provide a wide range of services to a substantial and diversified customer base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and individuals. Founded in 1997, the firm is headquartered in New York and maintains offices in many financial centers around the world. Hartree Partners LP is owned by the company’s Managing Partners, senior staff, and Oaktree Capital.



Find out more about us by visiting our website at: http://www.hartreepartners.com/



OUR VALUES:

We are DEEPLY ANALYTICAL, data driven, and methodical, research and application oriented, we seek to understand before we act.



We are ENTREPRENEURIAL, intellectually curious and enterprising, our goal is to develop new methods and find new opportunities.



We are INNOVATIVE, creative and cutting edge, we welcome opportunities to break new ground.



We are COLLABORATIVE, collegial and connected, our best work comes through the teams we have built.



We are ETHICAL, operating with respect and honoring commitments, we are dedicated to making ethical and sustainable business decisions that reflect our core value of integrity.



ROLE OVERVIEW:

As an Insight Analyst specialising in the European Gas Market, you will play a pivotal role in developing data-driven insights to optimise our understanding of gas market dynamics. You will work closely with Traders, Analysts and IT to uncover valuable information that informs trading decisions.



RESPONSIBILITIES:

Utilize advanced data analysis tools such as Tableau (or similar), Excel (with VBA), and SQL to extract, manipulate, and analyze large datasets related to European gas markets.
Collaborate closely with Traders, Analysts, and other stakeholders to understand business requirements and deliver actionable insights that drive trading strategies.
Improve robustness of automated reporting suite and create and monitor dashboards to minimize analytical down time.
Perform ad hoc analysis on Gas Market fundamentals and pricing.


REQUIREMENTS:

A minimum of 2 years of professional experience in developing analytical reporting solutions for production environments.
Excellent technical skills particularly in Tableau (or similar), Excel and SQL.
A minimum of a Bachelor's degree in quantitative field.
Exceptional communication skills, with the capability to simplify complex data insights.
Familiarity with python or similar programming languages, is not mandatory but will be viewed as an advantage.


WHAT'S ON OFFER:

Competitive salary up to £60,000 + bonus.
Comprehensive benefits package including health insurance, pension plan.
Hybrid working arrangement (minimum 3 days in the London office)