Are you a talented Data Scientist looking for a new challenge? Be part of the ‘engine room’ team within an established business with the financial support of a FTSE listed organisation.



Our client is a leading IT solutions provider who are going through exciting and promising times, and this Data Scientist role will allow you to become a key contributor to future business changes. You will receive coaching and mentorship to support your growth, so that you can perform at your best.



In this Data Scientist role, you will be analysing and identifying insights, developing and deploying data-driven solutions, and building and maintaining data pipelines.



The key skills required for the Data Scientist role are:



A strong education foundation from a Bachelors or Masters degree in Engineering / Statistics / Mathematics / Computer Science / Finance
Experience of working in a Data Scientist role for 1+ years
Experience with PowerBI / Qlik or similar style technologies for building pipelines for visualisation
Experience working with SAP / Oracle or similar ERP systems for product, sales and pricing data
Proficiency in Python, with some knowledge of querying databases
Knowledge of machine learning techniques (clustering, decision trees, neutral networks etc.) and their real-world advantages / drawbacks


The make-up of the ideal Data Scientist candidate will include strong problem-solving, confident communication skills and experience of stakeholder engagement / stakeholder management. You will be a results-driven, customer-focused individual with a passion for learning, a curious nature and a desire to work collaboratively in cross-functional teams in a fast-paced, fun environment.



What’s in it for you as a Data Scientist?



You will receive a base salary of up to £55,000 depending on experience, and a benefits package that will include:



25 days holiday from start, rising to 27 days holiday
Extra day off for your birthday
Additional day off for volunteering / charity event
Income protection scheme
Holiday purchase scheme
Enhanced maternity, shared parental, paternity and adoption pay 
Potential private healthcare


This Data Scientist opportunity is offered on a hybrid set up, with a fortnightly visit to the office in Basingstoke.



*Please note, you will be required to have independent right to work in the UK to join this organisation, without the need for visa sponsorship support.*



Franklin Bates is a leading IT recruitment consultancy specialising in Software Development, Cloud, & Data. We provide high quality contract, interim and permanent IT professionals to a broad range of technology companies within the UK.