Savanta is a data, market research and advisory company with teams in the UK, Americas, and APAC. Working with high-profile organizations and some of the world’s best-known brands, we Inform & Inspire our clients to Make Better Decisions through powerful data, empowering technology and high-impact consulting. Our innovative and tech-driven approach enables us to stay ahead in a rapidly evolving market.



About the Role:



This role sits within the Advanced Analytics team, which engages in projects spanning various industries in both private and public sectors.



The team specialises in:



analysing key drivers,
assessing pricing strategies,
optimizing portfolios,
conducting trade-off studies,
performing segmentation.


A Senior Consultant will use their strong working competency and point of view about different statistical and analytical techniques to take the lead on the project management of smaller projects and contribute to wider team projects.



The role will collaborate with other internal teams to develop research designs, surveys, and data collection strategies, and will provide key analytical/statistical expertise for new business proposals. Additionally, it will play a key role in delivering actionable insights to clients, presenting parts of presentations, and contributing to debrief discussions.



Please click here to view the full job description



About You:



The technical skills we are specifically looking for:



Strong academic background in a quantitative discipline such as mathematics, statistics, psychology, etc.
Advanced knowledge of R/SPSS/Python
Excellent Excel and PowerPoint skills.
Comprehensive understanding of prevalent statistical techniques in market research, such as Regression (both linear and logistic), Conjoint Analysis, MaxDiff, and Segmentation.
Significant direct experience in a comparable analytical role.


The key skills/experience we are looking for:



Capability to manage projects autonomously, handling multiple client projects with strict deadlines.
Experienced in creatively solving business problems, crafting innovative analytical strategies, and effectively narrating data-driven stories.
Ability to communicate and present findings to both technical and non-technical audiences.
Strong interpersonal abilities.
An organised, systematic approach to tasks with a quick learning curve.


And in return, Savanta offers:



Salary range: £36,000-£44,000
Biannual bonus scheme
Unlimited annual leave
Hybrid working
Flexible working practices
Health & wellbeing package (Private medical insurance or a flexible, tailored suite of well-being benefits)
Financial health (pension, life assurance, etc.)
Team & Company Socials
Committees for Health & Well Being, Charities & Volunteering and DE&I


Why Join Us:



With teams in the UK, US, Canada, and India, over 600 staff globally, Savanta offers the benefits of scale, whilst our specialist teams make life at Savanta feel more like working at a smaller agency. Our client portfolio includes some of the world’s best-known brands, including Sainsbury's, Heathrow, Samsung, Toyota, NatWest Group, Sky, The British Red Cross, Citizens Advice, Gousto and Sport England



Part of the vibrant Next 15 Communications Group, we have an entrepreneurial company culture that actively recognises and values its people and offers unrivalled scope for career development.



Savanta is committed to being an equal opportunities employer and continuously strives to be an employer of choice. Our people are our greatest asset - we value workplace diversity and inclusion, oppose all forms of unlawful discrimination, and welcome applications from suitably qualified candidates of all backgrounds.



All candidates will be considered equally, however, unfortunately we are unable to offer sponsorship.