Birmingham, Leeds, Liverpool, London –Canary Wharf (Core HQs)

Job Summary

This is an exciting opportunity to join the Central Performance team in the UK Health Security Agency as we continue to develop and refine the organisation’s performance reporting framework.

You will be given the opportunity to analyse the performance of the agency to provide senior leaders with insight into progress made towards its strategic goals, and assist in creating the reporting processes for the entire agency.

Applicants must be able to demonstrate a passion for public service and an ability to encourage and influence others to deliver quality outcomes.

Based within the Central Performance team, you will analyse the performance of the UK Health Security Agency and assist in creating reporting processes for the entire agency.

You will support the Senior Performance Analyst with the delivery of analytical support for a variety of functions including:

Analysing performance returns to provide senior leaders with insight into UKHSA’s progress towards its goals.
Producing written and verbal updates to communicate complex information to leaders to support decision making.
Working across the agency to help develop reporting processes and KPIs for our in-year business plan.
Designing processes within the team for the collection, storage, and analysis of performance data

Our ideal candidate should have experience using analytical techniques with both quantitative and qualitative performance data to identify issues and ask questions. They should also be proficient in using Excel to effectively communicate data.

We pride ourselves as being an employer of choice, where Everyone Matters promoting equality of opportunity to actively encourage applications from everyone, including groups currently underrepresented in our workforce. 

UKHSA ethos is to be an inclusive organisation for all our staff and stakeholders. To create, nurture and sustain an inclusive culture, where differences drive innovative solutions to meet the needs of our workforce and wider communities. We do this through celebrating and protecting differences by removing barriers and promoting equity and equality of opportunity for all. 

Job Description

Specific responsibilities include:

Collaborating with senior analysts and key stakeholders to define reporting requirements for boards and devise strategies to fulfil them.
Examining various performance data sources across the organisation to pinpoint issues and raise pertinent questions.
Establishing strong relationships with colleagues across different teams and disciplines to stay informed about UKHSA's activities.
Creating concise written and verbal updates for senior leaders summarising UKHSA's performance and highlighting key concerns.
Presenting data and conclusions in a clear and concise manner using appropriate visualisations.
Applying relevant data security standards, policies, and procedures to interpret and utilise data effectively.
Managing, cleaning, and ensuring the quality of data to prepare it for analysis.
Assisting in data quality checks and cleansing processes

Our team is friendly, informal, fast paced and a positive place to work. We are happy to discuss how flexible working patterns could support you as well as the business and we actively welcome applications from all backgrounds.

The Postholder Will Be Responsible For:

Developing insight into the performance of UKHSA against its in-year plans and strategic goals using qualitive and quantitative data.
Communicating complex information quickly and clearly to engage senior leaders with performance and support decision making.
Contributing to the continuous improvement of performance reporting within UKHSA by building and maintaining good relationships with customers.
Reviewing our processes and approach and identifying areas for improvement and developing solutions to drive reporting forward.
Meeting internal and external reporting requirements by producing routine and ad-hoc reports and data/trend analysis to agreed quality and deadlines.
Developing the innovative use of data in the team to provide insight, automation and measurement that supports the delivery of our work. 
Managing and maintain data to ensure it is stored securely to be accessible, accurate and with the relevant information to understand it.

You may be required to pick up additional duties depending on business needs.

The Postholder Will Be Responsible For:

Developing insight into the performance of UKHSA against its in-year plans and strategic goals using qualitive and quantitative data.
Communicating complex information quickly and clearly to engage senior leaders with performance and support decision making.
Contributing to the continuous improvement of performance reporting within UKHSA by building and maintaining good relationships with customers.
Reviewing our processes and approach and identifying areas for improvement and developing solutions to drive reporting forward.
Meeting internal and external reporting requirements by producing routine and ad-hoc reports and data/trend analysis to agreed quality and deadlines.
Developing the innovative use of data in the team to provide insight, automation and measurement that supports the delivery of our work. 
Managing and maintain data to ensure it is stored securely to be accessible, accurate and with the relevant information to understand it.

You may be required to pick up additional duties depending on business needs.

Person specification

Essential Criteria

You will be assessed on the below 4 essential criteria, which have been selected from the Job Description Document.

Strong analytical skills for selecting, utilising, and presenting data analysis techniques effectively.
Experience working with performance information to identify patterns and trends, drawing conclusions and implications for the business.
Demonstrable skills summarising and presenting complex information in a variety of formats including written and verbal.
Experience developing, implementing, and reviewing processes and systems that meet the needs of the business.

Please visit our careers site for more information https://gov.uk/ukhsa/careers

Alongside your salary of £31,997, UK Health Security Agency contributes £9,269 towards you being a member of the Civil Service Defined Benefit Pension scheme.  Find out what benefits a Civil Service Pension provides.

Learning and development tailored to your role
An environment with flexible working options
A culture encouraging inclusion and diversity
A Civil Service pension with an employer contribution of 28.97%

Selection process details

This vacancy is using Success Profiles and will assess your Behaviours, Ability and Experience.

Stage 1: Application & Sift

Success profiles

You Will Be Required To Complete An Application Form. You Will Be Assessed On The Listed 4 Essential Criteria, And This Will Be In The Form Of A:

Application form (‘Employer/ Activity history’ section on the application)
1000-word Statement of Suitability. 

This should outline how your skills, experience, and knowledge, provide evidence of your suitability for the role, with reference to the essential criteria.

The Application form and Statement of Suitability will be marked together.

Please do not exceed 1000-words. We will not consider any words over and above this number.

Longlisting: In the event of a large number of applications we will longlist into 3 piles of:

Meets all essential criteria 
Meets some essential criteria 
Meets no essential criteria 

Pile 1 will be taken though to shortlist.

Shortlisting: In the event of a large number of applications we will shortlist on:

Experience working with performance information to identify patterns and trends, drawing conclusions and implications for the business.
Desirable criteria may be used in the event of a large number of applications / large amount of successful candidates 

Desirable Criteria

Ability to work collaboratively with others and to encourage ideas from a wide range of sources to develop solutions that meet requirements.
Ability to identify and develop solutions to complex and difficult challenges, being willing to encourage and support others to do the same.
Ability to show a positive approach in keeping your own and the team’s efforts focused on the goals that really matter.
Ability to plan but also to reassess workloads and priorities if situations change or facing conflicting demands
Experience drafting papers and analysis at pace to communicate key messages quickly and to a high standard.

If you are successful at this stage, you will progress to interview.

Feedback will not be provided at this stage.

Reasonable Adjustments

The Civil Service is committed to making sure that our selection methods are fair to everyone. To help you during the recruitment process, we will consider any reasonable adjustments that could help you. An adjustment is a change to the recruitment process or an adjustment at work. This is separate to the Disability Confident Scheme. If you need an adjustment to be made at any point during the recruitment process you should contact the recruitment team in confidence as soon as possible to discuss your needs.

You can find out more information about reasonable adjustments across the Civil Service here: https://www.civil-service-careers.gov.uk/reasonable-adjustments/

Stage 2: Interview 

Success profiles 

You will be invited to a single remote interview where Behaviours, Ability and Experience will be tested

The Behaviours Tested During The Interview Stage Will Be:

Making Effective Decisions
Changing and Improving
Delivering at Pace
Collaborating and partnering 

Once this job has closed, the job advert will no longer be available. You may want to save a copy for your records.

Please note you will not be able to upload your CV. You must complete the application form in as much detail as possible. Please do not email us your CV.

Eligibility Criteria

External 

Open to all external applicants (anyone) from outside the Civil Service (including by definition internal applicants). 

Location 

This role is being offered as hybrid working based at any of our Core HQ’s. We offer great

flexible working opportunities at UKHSA and operate using a hybrid working model where

business needs allow.

This provides us with greater flexibility about how and where we work, to get the best from our workforce. As a hybrid worker, you will be expected to spend a minimum of 60% of your contractual working hours (approximately 3 days a week pro rata, (averaged over a month) working at one of UKHSA's core HQ’s (Birmingham, Leeds, Liverpool, and London).

Our core HQ offices are modern and newly refurbished with excellent city centre transport link and benefit from benefit from co-location with other government departments such as the Department for Health and Social Care (DHSC).

Security Clearance Level Requirement 

Successful candidates must pass a disclosure and barring security check. 

Successful candidates must meet the security requirements before they can be appointed. The level of security needed is Basic Personnel Security Standard

International Police check

If you have spent more than 6 months abroad over the last 3 years you may need an International Police Check. This would not necessarily have to be in a single block, and it could be time accrued over that period. 

Artificial Intelligence (AI)

Your application may be rejected and/or you may be subject to disciplinary action if evidence of plagiarism is detected. Examples of plagiarism can include presenting the ideas and experience of others, or generated by artificial intelligence (AI), as your own.

Internal Fraud check 

If successful for this role as one aspect of pre-employment screening, applicant’s personal details – name, national insurance number and date of birth - will be checked against the Cabinet Office Internal Fraud Hub and anyone included on the database will be refused employment unless they can show exceptional circumstances. Currently this is only for External candidates to the Civil Service.

Feedback will only be provided if you attend an interview or assessment.

Security

People working with government assets must complete baseline personnel security standard (opens in new window) checks.

People working with government assets must complete baseline personnel security standard (opens in new window) checks.

Nationality requirements

This Job Is Broadly Open To The Following Groups:

UK nationals
nationals of the Republic of Ireland
nationals of Commonwealth countries who have the right to work in the UK
nationals of the EU, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein and family members of those nationalities with settled or pre-settled status under the European Union Settlement Scheme (EUSS) (opens in a new window)
nationals of the EU, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein and family members of those nationalities who have made a valid application for settled or pre-settled status under the European Union Settlement Scheme (EUSS)
individuals with limited leave to remain or indefinite leave to remain who were eligible to apply for EUSS on or before 31 December 2020
Turkish nationals, and certain family members of Turkish nationals, who have accrued the right to work in the Civil Service

Further information on nationality requirements (opens in a new window)

Working for the Civil Service

The Civil Service Code (opens in a new window) sets out the standards of behaviour expected of civil servants.

We recruit by merit on the basis of fair and open competition, as outlined in the Civil Service Commission's recruitment principles (opens in a new window).

The Civil Service embraces diversity and promotes equal opportunities. As such, we run a Disability Confident Scheme (DCS) for candidates with disabilities who meet the minimum selection criteria.

The Civil Service Code (opens in a new window) sets out the standards of behaviour expected of civil servants.

We recruit by merit on the basis of fair and open competition, as outlined in the Civil Service Commission's recruitment principles (opens in a new window).

The Civil Service embraces diversity and promotes equal opportunities. As such, we run a Disability Confident Scheme (DCS) for candidates with disabilities who meet the minimum selection criteria.

Diversity and Inclusion

The Civil Service is committed to attract, retain and invest in talent wherever it is found. To learn more please see the  Civil Service People Plan (opens in a new window) and the  Civil Service Diversity and Inclusion Strategy (opens in a new window).

The Civil Service welcomes applications from people who have recently left prison or have an unspent conviction. Read more about prison leaver recruitment (opens in new window).

Once this job has closed, the job advert will no longer be available. You may want to save a copy for your records.

Contact point for applicants

Job Contact :

Name : Chris Williams
Email : chris.williams2@ukhsa.gov.uk

Recruitment team

Email : recruitment@ukhsa.gov.uk

Further information

The law requires that selection for appointment to the Civil Service is on merit on the basis of fair and open competition as outlined in the Civil Service Commission's Recruitment Principles. If you feel your application has not been treated in accordance with the Recruitment Principles, and you wish to make a complaint, in the first instance, you should contact UKHSA Public Accountability Unit via email: Complaints@ukhsa.gov.uk If you are not satisfied with the response you receive from the Department, you can contact the Civil Service Commission: Visit the Civil Service Commission website: https://civilservicecommission.independent.gov.uk