Research & Health Data Lead

Fixed Term Contract (13 months) 

Full time (34.5 hours), we are open to a conversation about how you work these hours

Location – Split between home and our London Office 

Salary Range £74,000 - £82,000



About us

At Macmillan you'll find talented people working together to do whatever it takes to support people living with cancer. We're going all out to find even better ways to help even more people who need our support. Our values are at the heart of who we are and everything we do, inspiring our thinking and guiding our actions.





About the role

In this role you will lead the development and delivery of Macmillan’s research and health data strategy ensuring an integrated, consistent and considered approach across our strategic objectives. You will ensure the Research & Health data team partners effectively across Macmillan and is appropriately set up to deliver with key teams in the Partnerships Directorate.



You will provide oversight and understanding of the cancer research and data landscape, working closely with the Partnerships teams to identify opportunities for Macmillan.



You will lead the development and delivery of foundational insights on the numbers, needs and experiences of the cancer population and healthcare system performance, working in collaboration with external partners and using external health data sets.





About you

The successful candidate will demonstrate the following skills and experience:

Experience of working in or with the cancer data and research community or a strong understanding of the research and data landscape in a health care setting.
Experience of delivering a complex programme of activity requiring extensive negotiation and collaboration with senior internal and external stakeholders.
Inclusive and adaptive leadership experience gained from an organisation of similar complexity, with evidence of having made a clear contribution to further its organisational strategy and plans.




In return, we offer a range of benefits including:

25 days holiday plus flexible bank holiday options, increasing by 1 day every year of service up to 30 days
Pension matched up to 7.5%
120+ learning and development offers, with access to external professional qualifications
Flexible working patterns, such as compressed hours, flexibility to work earlier or later around our core working hours of 10am-4pm
Holiday buying and selling scheme, life insurance, free wills, retail discounts and much more




Recruitment Process

Application deadline: Wednesday 16th April 2025



To ensure fairness and consistency to select the best candidate for this role, all our applications are anonymised up until an interview has been confirmed.