Senior Data Analyst 

 🚀Series A E-commerce Tech Start-Up 🚀





💸£70k - £90k plus equity & benefits

📍Hybrid / London Office 3 days





✅Innovative, collaborative culture, business driven by AI

✅Inspiring leader, passionate about this disruptive proposition with strong green impact

✅Chance to own shares in scaling organisation, drive towards exit and IPO





Omnis Partners are exclusively partnered with an innovative start-up that is transforming e-commerce through AI-driven solutions. With significant funding and ambitious expansion plans, they are now hiring exceptional talent to build out their Data team.





Founded by industry experts, this fast-scaling London-based company leverages machine learning software to e-commerce, reducing costs and enhancing efficiency. Backed by significant funding, they are rapidly expanding their infrastructure and AI-driven platform. 





You will operate as part of a highly collaborative, innovative team to deliver data insights and analytical solutions, under the leadership and guidance of an inspiring thought leader, in your Analytics Director.





We have two roles at this grade, both requiring the same combination of strong analytics skills, leveraging SQL and likely Python, coupled with exceptional problem solving skills and commercial acumen.

 



You will employ a range of techniques across financial modelling, clustering, LTV analysis, product analytics, predictive modelling all to drive funnel conversions, optimise customer experience and support process improvement.

 



Ultimately, we need super flexible, agile commercial insights analysts, capable of applying a broad range of skills to solve a multitude of challenges and to support business growth.





You will be joining a high-calibre team, with significant opportunities for career development in a hyper-growth, AI-driven business.





If you thrive in high-performing teams and want to make a meaningful impact in a disruptive tech-driven company, we’d love to hear from you.





Experience Required:

Educated to degree level in a relevant subject such as Computer Science, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, Mathematics, Statistics, Physics, Chemistry, Engineering etc.
Strong programming skills with SQL (essential) and ideally Python, building code and models, and working with large, messy, complex data sets to identify meaningful trends and insights
A range of statistical analytical experience across customer, commercial, product, business performance, finance (a combination of these not necessarily all) within a highly commercial context, comfortable with fast paced, rapid growth culture.
Experience of working in a client or business facing environment, demonstrable skills in building trust and commercial discourse around leveraging data to solve real world business problems.
A proactive mindset, intellectual curiosity, and the ability to thrive in a fast-changing environment.