Roles:

 

Create provocative and actionable insights that help sell Reddit as an advertising platform.
Daily responsibilities will span across insights - including platform data analysis, 1st and 3rd party insights storytelling, and leveraging primary research.
Owns and manages the translation of 1P and 3P data, coordinating with analysts to create a compelling story
Strong analytical skills to understand complicated data, but the creativity to apply that data in new and innovative ways. Data visualization expertise is a must.
Strong data storytelling skills can distill insights into an overarching narrative, culminating in compelling brand recommendations.
Translation of data and cohesive narrative into actionable insights that will feed into brand recommendations. These will be integrated into Google Slides as an easily digestible presentation. 
Ability to integrate and evolve based on feedback from stakeholders to inform future deliverables
Takes ownership of projects.
Does internal QA and move it to the QA Analyst
 

Skills:

 

4+ years of experience in agency planning, brand strategy, cultural insights, trends, or consumer insights/ behavior. Experience with both an agency and a consumer brand is a plus.
Client-facing experience preferred.
Understanding of EMEA local market/regional nuances is required.
Is comfortable working in a fast-paced environment, leading multiple projects.
Strong data storytelling skills to create compelling cases to inspire clients to invest further in advertising on the platform.
Strong analytical skills to understand complex data and discern meaningful patterns or trends.
Ability to distill an insight into a one-liner that becomes a rallying point for your stakeholders.
Experience with multiple research platforms or approaches (qualitative and quantitative research methodologies), from social listening, market research, desk research, syndicated research, etc.
Proficiency with research tools/platforms like Radian6, Global Web Index (GWI), Sysomos, Crimson Hexagon, Critical Mention, Google Analytics, BrandWatch, Quantcast, MRI Simmons, Survey Platforms (Survey Monkey, Attest, Suzy, Pollfish, etc.)
An influential storyteller who can zoom out to capture the big picture but zoom in to make those insights actionable and meaningful.
Collaborative and growth mindset, implementing feedback and direction quickly.
Strong project management and stakeholder collaboration skills
Strong writing and communication skills
Experience with data visualization is a plus (i.e., the ability to collect, analyze, and present data in a visually appealing and understandable format using charts, graphs, maps, and other visual elements in software like Tableau or Power BI).